[Sucheta] 'In the crash of 1986,
Harshad had managed to save his reputation.'
'But he had begun to realise...'
'...that dipping into one's own pocket,
was not the way to run a large-scale business.'
'To scale up, he needed big funds...'
'...and Harshad started knocking at the
door of financial institutions...'
'And there was only one man who could open
this door completely.'
'The Chairman of the Unit Trust of India,
M. J. Pherwani.'
'The original Big Bull.'
'Before the advent of mutual funds
and private investments...'
'...there were only two places where
Indian taxpayers could safely invest their money.'
'LIC and UTI.'
'While LIC was a long-term
institutional investor...'
'...UTI had a corpus fund of 20,000 crores
to invest in the share market.'
'If UTI decided to buy,
the Sensex was sure to gallop ahead.'
'And if it decided to sell,
the Sensex would get reigned in.'
- Please.
- Thank you, sir. - Thank you.
I've been wanting to meet you both
for a while now.
- Glad to meet you.
- Same here, sir.
Before we talk business...
...I want to ask you guys
a very important question.
Please.
Do you know what is the most
valuable thing in the world?
Uhh...
It's not a watch.
Not even expensive scotch.
Not even those big cars, diamonds...
No. Nothing.
- Advice?
- Uh...
You know... sometimes a piece of
advice can change your life...?
Let me give you a hint.
That word is a part
of my company's name.
- Trust?
- Correct. Trust.
Do you know why trust is so valuable?
Because it's in great demand.
And is always in short supply.
Very true.
Now the question is,
why should I trust you? Why?
Well, you can very well trust us.
- In fact, our entire business is...
- Precisely 13 months and 10 days ago...
...a few of my Vam Organics shares
landed up in someone's hands.
Owing to a simple
clerical mistake.
[Pherwani] 'My office tried
to contact them.'
But, do you know what they did?
They used this clerical mistake to their advantage
and sold those shares.
- Sir, that...
- You sold those shares.
- Those shares had landed up with you.
- Sir, actually, what happened was...
There is some big misunderstanding.
None of your shares ever came to us.
- And even if they did, how could we have sold them?
- Stop! Please, stop.
Don't try to teach me
how our system functions.
Do you know
why I wanted to meet you guys?
Because I wanted to tell you...
...there could be
a loophole in the system.
But only a few people misuse it.
People like you.
I don't do business just
for the sake of a deal.
I do business with people
whom I can trust.
No trust...
...no business.
[Title Montage]
Somras. Do you know
why this is called the drink of the Gods?
Because drinking it on Sunday,
makes Monday feel like heaven.
Have a sip. You won't get addicted
with a sip. Come on.
No, thank you.
I'm okay with my Thums Up.
Okay?
My Cheetah...
...in the past six months, you've bagged
LIC, GIC, Can Mutual...
...and pocketed 1.5 per cent commission
in every deal.
My institutional broker, huh?
- What, Pranav Bhai?
- And you say you're "okay"?
Hardly an institutional broker.
UTI still hasn't given us any business.
And I'm tired of this 1.5 per cent game.
Institutions have so much money
but no plan.
To be honest, if I had that kind of money...
...the market would have been
up by 4,000 points.
Then take it up. It's your money,
go on and invest it.
What's that you say?
"Risk is the spice of life", right?
Darling, whiskey is risky too.
Have a taste of this spice too.
Come on...
You are impossible.
Hey, Pranav Sheth, your laughter can be
heard from a mile away.
Ajay Bhai!
Wonderful. I'm glad you
were just a mile away...
...coz my laughter can't reach
all the way to Calcutta.
- Cheers!
- Cheers.
-[Man] 'Pranav!'
- Yes?
You can't drink,
but you can hold it, right? Here.
Go on, pay your respects. Big man.
Stay right here.
[Pranav] 'Hey, how're you?'
Ajay Bhai, Harshad.
- Harshad Mehta.
- Ajay Kedia. Cheers.
Oh no no.
This is Pranav Bhai's.
I don't drink. By the way,
I've heard a lot about you.
Ever since I've entered the market,
I've heard of Mr. Kedia from Calcutta.
That Black Thursday crash of 1982...?
...your's and Reliance's...?
I too lost lakhs that day.
I mean, I was on the verge
of packing up from the market. Bag and baggage.
Harish, right?
- Harshad. Harshad Mehta.
- Yes, Harshad.
A word of advice for you Harshad.
If you can't take the heat,
get out of the kitchen. Huh?
It's not like that.
And I'm really sorry if we ended
your stint in the market.
- Hmmm? Very sorry about that.
- No, no...
In fact, I've started
my own consultancy now.
- Yours?
- Yes...
Growmore.
Alright, Mr. Growmore.
I will see you around...
...if you stay around.
Come here.
Oh, Mr. Mehta?
Where's my drink?
Bloody hell!
You finished my drink?
[Pranav laughs]
Who the hell is this Kedia?
What's with his attitude?
Of course he has an attitude.
He practically owns the share market.
He comes from a family of traders.
He manages four companies simultaneously.
One foot in the money market
and the other in the share market.
[Pranav] 'Government securities, PSU bonds...
At a huge scale. '
Money market?
Is there so much money to be
made in government securities?
It's the bazaar of wealth, brother!
Okay, tell me one thing. What is
the daily volume of our share market?
Around 10,000 crores...
And guess the daily volume of the money market?
Two lakh crores.
Therefore, attitude.
Ashwin, have you ever seen a cricketer
play tennis?
But even in tennis, there is a grass court, a clay court...
and the game is different for each.
This money market game is out of your league.
[Ashwin] 'Harshad, it's all been
going well for six months.'
- Now why this new obsession?
- What's been going well?
Growmore is just our name,
where's the growth?
Institutional broking is not good enough.
We have to think of something new.
Businesses reach saturation points, not brains.
Or do we stop using our brains as well?
I get it.
That Ajay Kedia, he's rattled you, right?
[Pranav] 'And so,
you're lecturing us now.'
'Why don't you speak clearly...'
...that you want to stick a finger
up his, for the way he treated you?
[Ashwin] 'Does anyone here even
know what the money market is?'
Do you have
any solid plan in mind?
Now that's the right question.
Look, the share market and
money market aren't very different.
Here, instead of shares,
we trade in...
...government securities, PSU bonds
and units.
We all know that a broker understands
a company's share's value...
...better than the company itself,
right?
Yes.
Similarly, in the money market...
...which banks want to buy securities
and where they can get them...
...is in the broker's knowledge.
[Harshad] 'Our job is to manage both
demand and supply.'
The most important document in every
money market transaction is the SGL note.
SGL means Subsidiary General Ledger.
[Ashwin] 'Now let's assume, I buy
1000 units from you.'
'So, you give me an SGL note
in return.'
'I deposit this SGL
in the PDO...'
'...that is Public Debt Office of the RBI.'
'The PDO holds the account
for all your units.'
[Harshad] 'Brokers, banks...
everyone wants their business to grow fast.'
'And they say, SGLs slow down transactions.'
So, instead of SGL, we will use BR.
-[Bhushan] 'BR... meaning Bank Receipt.'
-[Rebello] 'Hmm...'
'That means transactions
are now possible without SGL.'
'There is no central authority.'
'Now, when one bank wants to sell
its securities to another...'
'...they can simply issue a receipt...'
'...guaranteeing that they
have the securities.'
[Ashwin] 'Do we have a contact
in Citibank?'
[Harshad] 'We don't have a contact
but I've fixed a meeting with K S Tyagi...'
'...he handles all their
money market deals.'
'He's known as 'Tyagu' in the market'
Mr. Mehta, it's not important
whether you're capable or not.
What is important is whether
you understand this market.
First, learn about this market
and then approach us.
Then we'll see.
You mean to say, you won't do business
with us because we are outsiders?
It's not a question of insider
or outsider.
I already have
my existing set of brokers.
Why should I work with somebody new?
Sir, there was a time, I was new
at the stock markets too.
But I found my way through it.
So, I am sure I can do it
with money markets too.
Mr. Mehta, let me give you some
very good advice.
This is the money market.
Top brokers from the stock market
want to enter it, but they can't.
You know why?
Because of pedigree.
Pedigree is very important here.
[Tyagi] 'There's no place
for new people in this market.'
You shouldn't try either.
Thank you for your advice, sir.
But I am not sure if it was
in my interest or yours.
Have a good day.
Hi.
Who's that?
Ajay Kedia.
Okay...
Hi.
- Just a second.
- I am sorry to interrupt you.
That's okay.
Can I see your treasury chief,
Mr. Niraj Chopra?
Did you have an appointment
with him today?
Just tell him it's Harshad Mehta.
Uhm...
Sorry, sir, but he is not available.
Can you give me an appointment
with him for tomorrow?
Sir, I'm afraid but he's leaving
for Madras tomorrow.
He will be out of station
for a while.
So, he has no time during
the day at all?
He has a flight to catch.
Niraj Bhai.
What a coincidence! Wow!
I'm Harshad, Harshad Mehta.
- Hello.
In India...
...the money market is not a market
in the Western sense of the term.
Here, it's more like a jungle.
[Niraj] 'I'm not surprised Tyagu
threw you out. B*****d.'
He doesn't give us any business
nor does he let us do it on our own.
Why would he entertain you?
-[Niraj] 'Look, Harshad, right?'
- Yeah.
Citibank is the king of this jungle.
They've made the whole money market
into an exclusive club.
And they do not like outsiders.
Today, the money market feels like
the territory of one bank and its brokers.
It's a goddamn cartel.
And Tyagi, he's the boss
of this cartel.
And his brokers, Ajay Kedia,
Hiten Shroff, Hemendra Kapadia...
...these people have cornered
most of the money market.
We are at their goddamn mercy.
The moment we crack a deal
they get to know.
In simple words...
This cookie is the market.
And the cartel is enjoying
eating the whole cookie.
No, I get it.
Citibank has its own cartel...
with Tyagi and his brokers.
So, why can't we form
our own cartel against them?
No, I'm serious.
Tell me honestly, Niraj Bhai.
Have you never thought of this?
Of course, I have. Often, in fact.
And like this, I have
many other fantasies too.
But we also have ethics.
Tyagi and his cartel know no ethics.
We can't do dirty business like them.
I understand. You should never do
dirty business.
But I can, right?
Do you think...
...Tyagi really knows how his brokers
bring him business?
Yes and no.
So similarly, you don't need to know
how I get you the business.
You show the path.
Just tell me where to start.
My time, my effort.
And you have nothing to lose.
You knew I was going to be
on this flight, right?
Yes and no.
A cartel is as good as its members.
The man we're meeting today...
He's a potential member to your cartel.
Our cartel.
Your cartel.
'I have many contacts
at Grindlays.'
I used to work at Grindlays.
It's confirmed that...
...Grindlays is on the look-out
for money market brokers.
And they don't want anyone
from the Citibank cartel.
'All that is fine, but
the biggest problem is, Citibank.'
They have all the funds
to buy the securities.
Once they corner the market,
their brokers manipulate everything...
Seems like you don't watch TV.
Of course.
Well then, haven't you seen...
..."one sparrow, then more sparrows...
Land to peck at some seeds..."
The solution lies within that.
What?
Look, Citibank throws birdseed...
And like a sparrow, every bank begins
pecking on it, that too alone.
And so, it's easy to get trapped.
And what's your point?
The point is, it's time for
all banks to come together.
Like this. We are one.
We are strong.
We are courageous.
Once we unite, we can achieve big things.
We just can't deal with any bank.
We also have to think about profit and loss.
For once, flap your wings together and
fly off with the hunter's net.
Profit will follow.
And once Citibank and its brokers
lose a deal...
...we can cut the net they have woven.
Look, I'm a man of the share market.
I think long-term.
If as a broker, I am ready to bear a loss.
You are banks after all.
What do you say, Niraj Bhai?
"One, two, three..."
Let's do it.
"Clever little sparrows...
Smart little sparrows..."
"Off they go...
carrying the net along..."
"...flocking together, birds of a feather."
I hear that Grindlays too
has joined hands with Harshad?
Well. They are not
dealing with us anymore.
Plus, Harshad is going
after many small banks...
...and institutions that
we don't even touch.
But he is getting volumes.
He's buying as much as he can.
He has even bought some at a loss.
Is he an idiot?
[Niraj] 'Honestly Harshad...'
'...I don't think the cartel will
really bother about us right now.'
Yeah, we may have some business
but nowhere close to them.
And we never will because Citibank
controls the volume.
- It's simple as that.
- It's time...
...to go to the big boss of security dealings...
The bank which trumps Citibank.
Citibank may be the don of
the money market...
...but who's the emperor
of banking in India?
To fight Citibank,
we must think local.
[Harshad] 'You see, sir. We have done
our detailed study in the money market.'
'There are a lot of foreign banks,
there are dealers, there are cartels...'
'...and they are making good money.'
'I would really say that SBI needs
to be a little more aggressive in this. '
'And all this data...'
'...is absolutely backed by the solid research
that we have done at Growmore.'
'We know that SBI often
has huge demand for bonds.'
'Because of the heavy investments...'
...coming from institutional investors,
right?
And we can easily source
these securities for you.
In fact, there's no need
to be worried.
All transactions will be safe.
And we will offer you the best
brokerage rates in the market.
Growmore is known for that.
Please have a seat.
Thank you.
Mr. Mehta,
we've done our research too...
about you... and your ways...
[Khemani] 'We too have friends
in the market.'
You have your own methods.
And you love taking
on the big players.
- Actually, sir...
-[Khemani] 'And you have...'
...faced huge losses at times...
...because of your own methods.
But, it's also true that...
...you've never let your
clients suffer a loss.
Not even after the last market crash.
You are a man of integrity.
Thank you.
Here, brokers team up with foreign banks
to manipulate quotes...
...for their and their client's benefit.
We're meeting you today,
not because we want to play safe.
But because we want
to change the image of SBI.
Growmore is at the top
of our priority list...
...because you know how to take risks.
These foreign banks and their brokers
have been looting us for years.
It's high time
we set our house in order.
-[Khemani] 'Isn't it'?
- Absolutely.
We are in business, Mr. Mehta.
[Ajay] 'Apparently, he might just add
a new word to the financial dictionary.'
Bankerage!
What is this? A new gimmick?
You're not going to
like this one bit.
Harshad has started taking
positions in the money market too...
...and that too,
by using banks as a front.
They're getting a commission.
He calls it 'bankerage'!
And the banks are
doing it happily. Even SBI.
No, no, no, A.K.
This is serious.
I've always said, it's a crime
for brokers to take any position.
And all this makes Harshad
our competition now.
We must keep a close eye
on all his actions.
And I mean, all actions.
I need the details
of all his transactions.
We can't be caught napping on this.
No.
[Pranav] 'I said, why would I take a favour
from you for such a small matter?'
'I'd come to you for something big.'
- Not for me.
- Huh?
One foot in the money market...
and you've given up sweets?
Not given up...
...just controlling.
When did you start controlling yourself?
Well, these days, aren't you the one who's
out of control?
I've seen how high you've pushed ACC...
out of control.
Keeping tabs on the market, huh?
Looks like the cheetah is missing his jungle!
But the word is,
it's time to ditch ACC.
Manu Bhai and his men are targeting it.
If they start shorting,
I don't have the funds to hold on.
This is the problem with us Bulls.
The moment we depend on the market for funds,
those bears get to know.
By the way, how much do you need?
[Harshad] 'This is the right time
to get back into the market.'
[Ashwin] 'Sure. Who's stopping you?'
But don't go after ACC.
Look, if Pranav doesn't have the funds,
it's not like we have a treasure chest.
Canara Bank wanted
to buy some securities, right?
They were to send a cheque?
There it is.
Harshad, whom should we
buy the bonds from?
Grindlays will have, right?
Once we get the BRs, I'll deliver them
personally to Canara Bank.
It's been a while
since I've been there.
Let's deposit all these cheques
into our account today.
Canara Bank needs the securities
after ten days.
Harshad, you...
Are you out of your mind?
This is not our money.
If we want to get back in
the market, this is our treasure chest.
Harshad, it's
a ready forward deal.
Once the BR expires,
we'll have to return the money.
And we will.
We have ten whole days.
Till then, this money will be rotting away
in our account in any case.
If we invest it in the market,
the money will grow and so will the market.
And when it comes out in the open,
our troubles will grow too.
There won't be any trouble.
We are not stealing.
The money is lying in our account.
What we do with it is nobody's concern.
Imagine. How much profit
we can make in 10 days!
[Sucheta] 'The Bull was
back in BSE.'
'And his first bet, was on ACC.'
'The bears were destroying ACC.'
'But they didn't have
even the slightest hint...'
'...that this time,
Harshad didn't just have money...'
'...he had the whole bazaar of wealth.'
'Often, to save time in security dealings,
'banks would deposit funds
directly into brokers' accounts'
'so that the broker could
crack the best deals before buying.'
'Harshad saw the loophole here.'
'With this money now lying in his account,
he began investing in the share market again.'
'It was a slow system...'
'...so the money would often remain
in the brokers' account for upto a fortnight.'
'It was readily available for Harshad
to use as his own...'
'...and push up any stock he liked.'
'By rotating banking funds
in the share market...'
'...he was making so much profit...'
'...that he began making
money market deals at lower commissions.'
'Banks were getting the best deals...'
'And Harshad was making
more and more profit.'
'The money market had turned
into a money-making market for him.'
Sure, we can join this.
Madam, a flat this big in Bombay
at such a prime location, is rare.
The Sensex is touching 1400.
At 1600 we should start selling.
I hope you are okay with that.
Share markets are your territory.
Do what you feel is best.
But, what if the index rises even more?
Harshad is being really bullish.
Come on! Come on, who is he?
How much money does he have?
He can't just go on buying
more and more.
See, you are not getting the point.
He has the funds.
He's using banking funds
to push up the markets.
He's caught on quick?
He's using a trick out of our book.
The only difference is that we do it
safely, and in a classy way.
And he does it in a classless,
crude way.
No...
We need a strategy to stop him.
Let's use our banking funds
to short the markets.
We have to do whatever we can.
Attack, divide, engage...
...and defeat.
Stanchart wants securities
worth 200 crores.
- So?
- What do you mean, 'so'?
None of our banks hold
such a huge amount of securities.
Tell me something.
How often have we delivered
physical securities to banks?
Have we ever handed them over
in person?
But brother, we have to give
BRs as proof, don't we?
Once the bank gives the receipt,
It means they're confirming
that the securities received.
Think like a donkey and you'll remain one.
What?
Stanchart wants
BRs worth 200 crores, right?
- Yes.
- So, we'll give BRs.
Isn't that what Citibank cartel does?
'Harshad Bhai, how can I do
what you are asking me to?'
- This is not legal.
- There's nothing wrong in it.
But if I don't have the securities,
how can I issue BRs to them...?
How can I sell something I don't have
and give you a receipt for it?
- This is wrong.
- This is not wrong. It's survival.
I'm aware that you don't even
have funds to pay salaries.
So, this is a sure-shot way to rescue
your bank from its losses.
It's very simple.
Stanchart wants securities
worth 200 crores?
You just issue the BRs.
Give them the receipt.
As soon as they get the receipt,
200 crores will be in your account.
Of which, 4 crores will be yours.
Bankerage.
Within 15 days,
I'll return 200 crores to them.
They'll return the BRs to you.
Then tear them off, if you like.
They will get the securities.
You will get a commission.
Citibank does all its business
through BRs.
And look sir, even you know,
that physical securities are
never exchanged in any deal.
[Sucheta] 'By the end of 1990, India was
heading towards an economic crisis...'
'The RBI Governor knew...'
'...banks will play a pivotal role
in India's economic revival.'
'But the RBI had also
begun to notice irregularities...'
'...in the security dealings of banks.'
'But this was a pre-digital era'
'...when it often took days to
trace a transaction.'
'...and months to locate a file.'
'For RBI, this was going
to be a tedious battle.'
United Bank of India, Bank of Baroda.
Bank of India, Canara Bank
and Indian Bank.
Talk to the Department of
Banking Operations and Development.
I want the security departments
of all these banks...
...thoroughly checked and inspected.
Sir... Uh...
- Yes, Ghosh?
- Sir, Citibank?
Hmmm. It's a foreign bank.
We have to be careful.
Our economy is still recovering.
It hasn't stabilised yet.
We are still dependent on the loans
arranged by them.
Do one thing.
Give them an informal warning.
And, Ghosh...
Make it look like a regular audit.
Not an investigation.
The matter shouldn't leave this room.
The Press mustn't get to know of it.
Thank you.
And which is the fifth bank?
Indian Bank?
Great. Are you sure?
And you're sure there will be inspections
in all these banks today?
[Man] 'Madam, these are
only the first five banks.'
'The RBI will go after
other banks too.'
'All these b******s
stand exposed now.'
'Even small banks like
Bank of Karaj'
'No account of securities there either.'
So, what's RBI planning?
I mean, what's their next step going to be?
[Man] 'As usual, they'll issue a circular
on the buying and selling of securities.'
'RBI will issue new rules.'
'And they'll add some
more points, what else?'
Can you link me to any broker?
[Man] 'Oh no. Unless the
news of this inspection goes public...'
'...all the brokers will keep
their mouth shut.'
'Does anybody ever speak
without a reason?'
But reasons can be created, right?
[Sucheta] 'While both Harshad and
the RBI kept their sights focused on the banks'
'I was focused on my new job
with The Times of India.'
'None of us knew that our
paths were going to cross very soon.'
Nor is there the name of a bank
nor a source.
Sucheta, without any names,
I can't print this.
My source works
in one of these banks.
The story is 100 percent legit.
Maybe. But can anyone confirm it?
- I can't.
- Rajdeep, this story is huge...
...And it will only get bigger,
but only if you print this.
-[Rajdeep] 'Sucheta, you know my answer.'
- You need to trust me.
When the rest of the media
was singing Rajan Pillai's praises...
...I was the one who reported his brush
with the law in Singapore and it snowballed.
I have the same hunch with this.
Print it.
Only then will everyone
in the banking system know...
...that inside information can't
stay hidden forever.
And if we print this, and no one
opens their mouth after that...
Then? I can't risk putting this
on the front page.
- Where will you put it?
- The financial section.
No chance, sir.
No chance.
I'm absolutely sure, this information
hasn't leaked from our end.
It's from some bank.
But since this news
is already out in the open...
...can we announce a proper audit
to confirm the irregularities?
The public
doesn't want an audit.
No, Ghosh, that won't work.
Issue a directive
and share it with the press.
Everyone must know clearly...
...that the RBI has issued strict
guidelines on the use of BRs.
[Tyagi] 'Kedia told me that you've
refused all ready forward deals?'
'Sir, The RBI is on our tail, sir.'
But where is the problem
if you're all covered up?
Sir, RBI has issued
a new circular.
Haven't you read the guidelines, Sir?
Look at this, sir.
These are strict orders.
"All ready forward transactions..."
"...whether through the mechanism
of SGL or BR..."
"...should be reflected on the same day
in its investment account."
"Transactions between one bank
and another bank..."
"...should not be put
through the brokers' accounts."
"Banks should not act as agents
for any broker clients."
And the most important part.
"All transactions should be
at market rates, strictly."
And...
- You never deal at market rates.
- Stop it.
It's RBI, not the CBI.
And these are guidelines,
not the law.
And this is India.
[Tyagi] 'You know
nothing ever happens here.'
And look, if you want to stay in business...
...then you'll have to do business, right?
I'm sorry, Mr. Tyagi.
But we'll stick to the guidelines
for any business.
You tell me. Am I old?
This new generation just won't listen.
They call the experienced, old
and push us away.
I told my son...
...that the money market
is a mess. Don't get into it.
But he didn't listen. And look.
Today, every deal is a struggle.
Suresh, a person is only
as old as his thoughts.
Age is just a number.
-[Suresh] 'Why don't you explain this to my son?'
- But you never introduced us!
I would've explained all about age and
also taken a follow-up on that fake BR story.
Oh. So, I'm useless now?
New source. New story?
Suresh...
Okay, why do I call you Suresh?
Because you're a friend
and not just a source.
Everyone has suppressed the BR story.
And if I don't get a follow-up,
it will die.
Okay, I'll talk to him
when I see him.
- He might agree.
- Isn't he in the office?
He's in office 24/7.
But despite being next-door...
he doesn't even talk to me, let alone meeting.
Okay. I'll take your leave.
[Sucheta] 'Sorry...'
- I just need two minutes.
- What... What are you doing here?
I am Sucheta Dalal from
Times of India.
[DT] 'I know who you are.'
I don't want to speak to you.
Listen, it's okay.
Your father already knows me.
- I just need a little bit of info...
- Do you want me to call the security?
No no...
Please, don't misunderstand me.
- I just need a little bit of info...
-[bell rings]
Please leave.
Okay, your father has my number
if you ever want to talk.
Okay. Sorry. Thank you.
The RBI is checking every line
from every page of every book.
Okay. Let's talk like bankers.
Forget the securities.
I'm sure you can give me a loan?
Tell me. What line of credit
can you offer?
To give a loan, I need funds, don't I?
I'm not refusing.
But we're facing a major crunch for funds.
You too are stranded
because of funds, huh?
Okay. What if I bring customers...
...who will deposit large amounts
in this bank?
Then you will give me a loan, right?
[Sucheta] 'RBI had chained the whole
system with its guidelines.'
'Harshad knew that even the bear cartel
was on a dry-run with no cash.'
'This was the time
to get ahead of them.'
Docking charges, fuel charges...
altogether...
...they make a weekly collection
of 20 to 25 crores.
And that too, liquid.
Everything is liquid at the docks
and in the sea.
Just imagine...
What if we channelize
all their funds to RICO?
Then the funds will eventually
come back to us.
Wait a minute, brother.
Tell me something. Are you a king?
Or a LO.O.T.SE.SEA?
- LO.O.T.SE.SEA?
- Lord Of The Seven Seas?
That you will beckon, and the docks
will pour their entire fund into RICO?
Rubbish!
Everyone bows down to profit.
And I know how to weave a story
about profit.
And Bhushan, where these funds
should be invested...
...is the prerogative of the chairman.
All we have to do,
is convince the chairman.
And what is this story you plan to weave?
Please explain.
Look, RICO has no funds to give a loan.
If this money goes there,
they'll get funds...
...and we'll get a loan.
What's the interest rate for a loan?
11 percent?
Assume, we take this loan
at 12 percent.
[Bhushan] 'That means, one percent
for the chairman.'
'But brother, the money will still go
from our pocket, right?'
[Harshad] 'So, let it.'
'When we invest this loan in the
market and make a huge profit... '
'...this one or two percent
will fade in comparison.'
Look, Mr. Gaithonde, you have to deposit
your money in one bank or the other.
Why don't you deposit it
in RICO bank this time?
You will earn an interest from the bank...
...but I'm interested
in your interest too.
You understand, don't you?
Give me some time.
Let me think about it.
Come, let me explain.
Look, I'm a man of the share market.
So, rather than in time,
I believe in instant deals.
If we give it too much time,
the value might drop.
And the value of this deal
might drop too.
Are you sure Amitabh Bachchan
gets his suits made here?
Yes. Mine too.
That's good.
Harshad is no less than
the Bachchan of BSE.
Our angry young man, who's taken on
the cartel all alone.
- Right?
- Yeah.
And, Mr. Jobber, life isn't a movie...
...with an interval
for popcorns and snacks.
Life keeps changing.
Nothing's permanent.
What do you say, Harshad?
It can be permanent.
If funds keep flowing,
we will be permanent bulls.
Not just Bull.
Big Bull.
Hey, all banks
are in RBI's radar.
They have to consult the RBI
even before they fart.
Gone are the old ways
of conducting security business.
You know Sucheta Dalal, from Times of India?
She's writing an article.
If your name crops up
in relation to BRs...
...she'll be knocking at your door.
Be careful.
And what will she do
once she reaches me? Huh?
I don't deal
in securities anymore.
What do you mean
you don't deal in securities?
What I mean Pranav Bhai...
is that there is a ton of government money...
...gathering dust in PSUs.
So, let's invest that money in BSE.
Government must
earn some profit too, right?
Sir, frankly speaking, government PSUs
need a fresh approach.
You know well, ONGC
has so much money, but no plan.
In fact, when we discussed our ideas
with the minister, he clearly said...
..."Go meet Mr. Nawalakha.
He is the man with a vision".
But, Mr. Mehta...
This is the government's money.
We can't allow it to be invested
in the stock market.
But that's not what I'm saying.
All I'm saying is, invest
in the PMS schemes of banks.
Look, sir. My job is
to make profit.
And I will make profit
for the government too.
We just need to match our vision.
[Sucheta] 'Now, Harshad had
Such a source of money...'
'...which nobody could have imagined.'
'Not just ONGC...'
'...but huge public sectors units
like Coal India...'
'...NHPC, NTPC,
and IRFC money...'
'...started getting invested
in the bank PMSs directly...'
'...and indirectly,
in the share market.'
"This world is but a halt..."
"and everyone a traveller..."
"why then does the foolish man trap himself...
...in the trappings of wealth and fame..."
"...don't trust this moment...
...soon it will be gone, before you know where..."
"...After all, life is but a two-day fair..."
But some people ask
a lot of questions.
"What does the company do?
What does it produce?"
Nobody wants to invest
for the long term.
Book your profits and pull out.
Then tell them...
...Mazda is
Harshad Mehta's company.
That's all it takes.
This is insider news.
Harshad Bhai has invested
in Mazda Industries.
Now see how it zooms.
[Sucheta] 'Harshad was fast becoming
a market legend.'
'One signal from him,
and the tide would turn in the market.'
'On Harshad's word,
unheard-of companies like Mazda...'
'...also caught people's attention.'
[Sucheta] 'But 1991
was a strange time for the Indian economy.'
'In the middle of an economic crisis...'
'...The Chandrashekhar government
was dissolved.'
'The next election took place
in the midst of Mandal Commission protests.'
'It was tough to guess the election result...'
'But after the first round of voting...'
'...ex-Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi
was assassinated.'
'And when the election
results were announced...'
'...a minority government
was formed under P. V. Narasimha Rao.'
'But none of this impacted
the share market.'
'Harshad took the BSE index
to astronomical heights.'
'Now, there was no one to stop
his Bull Run.'
"You will take nothing with you, my friend."
"You came empty-handed
And that's how you will go, my friend."
'Before Harshad, no one had
made such wealth in the market.'
'His lifestyle was no less
than a celebrity or a film star.'
'With his rags to riches story...'
'...he had become a hero
for every common Indian.'
'And everybody wanted to be Harshad Mehta.'
Isn't this a bit much?
This Harshad Mehta is
crossing the line now.
The m**********r
is crossing his limits.
Of this body and this soul
there's only one truth
You must watch your actions
to reap destiny's sweet fruit
So say the great saints
this world is a false affair
"...After all, life is but a two-day fair..."
What did you bring into this world
And what can you take away from this world.
"...After all, life is but a two-day fair..."
The logic of the stock market
is very easy.
Close your eyes, pick any stock
and invest in it.
The chances of winning or losing
are always 50-50.
Don't laugh, it's a fact.
Did you know, in 1964 in the US,
a monkey was made to select 15 scrips.
'That too, by throwing darts
with a blindfold.'
And at the same time, a financial expert
selected another 15 scrips.
What was the result?
The 15 scrips selected
by the monkey, won.
They made a huge profit.
The market has a simple philosophy.
Invest, and relax.
- Even he did the same.
- No...
I mean yes, a little bit.
Uncle, can I get
your autograph, please?
Dear, they call me Amitabh Bachchan,
but I'm actually not him.
I had told you,
I don't want these old ones.
Show me something new.
This is the car of
the King of Partan, Harshad Bhai.
A single piece in all of India.
And it has a 1200 CC engine.
Darling, this is my time.
So not just your King's car,
I can buy his palace.
- Show me something new. Imported.
-[Dealer] 'You know how it is with imported cars.'
We hardly get one in a month.
There's a Lexus coming from Dubai
next month.
But, Ajay Kedia...
'You might know him.'
His company has already booked it.
How much is it?
- Harshad Bhai, I'll show you something else.
- How much is it?
It's 45 lakhs.
Have you taken an advance?
No, I've not taken any.
But I've given him. My word.
Then the car should be delivered
from Dubai directly to my house.
I'll give you 55 lakhs.
Forty-five for the car
and ten for your word.
[priest chanting mantras]
Do you like the car?
It's nice. But what will you do with
so many cars?
We already have 15 to 20 cars.
Didn't you like it?
No, it's good.
But what good will a car do?
A lot.
Money attracts money.
People must know...
...that the Mehtas are no less than
Ambanis or Tatas.
- Got it?
- Bhai, we don't want to become so big.
It can bring bad luck.
Forget these superstitions.
Sit in the car and enjoy.
I will.
But I think you've forgotten.
When you were small, Shantilal Mehta
had shown your horoscope to a priest...
...he said that you are going to be
unlucky in matters of money.
When there's money in your pocket,
Bad luck makes no difference.
This is my astrology.
Come on now.
Hey, smarty!
Come on now!
- Sit at the back, come on.
- Come.
[phone ringing]
Hello.
Yes, who's it?
Yes, hold on a minute.
Phone.
- Who's it?
- Says he's from Delhi.
- Hello?
-[Swami] 'Greetings, Mehta ji.'
It's Santswami, from Delhi.
Hari Om, Swami ji.
Sorry to trouble you
at this hour.
The time is not the worry.
[Harshad] 'The worry is that
you've called.'
While I'm here,
you have no reason to worry.
[Swami] All the help you've
extended to the parties during elections...
[Swami]...is appreciated by everyone here...
The country and the government may have
undergone some changes after the elections.
But in Delhi, everyone would like to
maintain the same relations with you.
Swami ji, I would love an opportunity
to serve the government.
[Swami] 'You will soon get the opportunity,
and we shall meet soon.'
'Hari Om.'
Hari Om.
[Song playing]